SMART: Software for Managing Academic Records and Transcripts
    Prototype developed for Njala University.
    Built on top of RAMP - Record and Activity Management Program

The files in this directory are meant to help you create one or more
databases to use with the Njala Smart Prototype.

This directory contains a number of files that:
  -- Create appropriate MySQL accounts (if they don't exist already).
  -- Create basic tables used by the underlying RAMP framework for
     such things as authentication, authorization, and record locking.
  -- Create prototype Smart tables developed for Njala University.

You may use these files as guides for creating accounts interactively
in MySQL, or you may edit them and then use them as scripts within MySQL:
     mysql> SOURCE filename.sql

SECURITY CONCERNS:
Please read the installation instructions in INSTALL_DB.txt,
particularly the section on "Addressing Security Concerns,"
BEFORE using these files as guides or using them as scripts.
AT THE VERY LEAST, use different passwords than are specified in the
files that create MySQL accounts.  If you put new passwords in a file
to read as a script, change the permissions on the file before-hand,
to be readable only by the owner.

The rest of this file contains instructions for creating either a
development environment (a sample environment whose data you can view
and change) or a production environment and parallel versions
for safe experimentation and for staging upgrades before they go into
production.


---------------------

CREATING A DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENT:  (`njala_proto` database)

createDevelMysqlAccts.sql
    Working with Smart requires two types of Mysql Accounts:  database
    administrator accounts (one for each DBA) and a single account that is
    used by the web-based SMART software.  The createDevelMysqlAccts.sql
    file has commands that create both and grant them appropriate
    permissions on the njala_proto database.  If you already have
    appropriate database administrator accounts (or an existing account
    for Smart to use), you can comment out the appropriate commands.
    In that case, make sure you edit the GRANT commands to use your
    existing accounts.

    You must run MySQL as root (or some other user that has CREATE USER
    and GRANT permissions to execute the commands found in this file.

    ==> Instructions:
        Change permissions of createDevelMysqlAccts.sql to be readable
            only to you.
        Edit the file to create appropriate account names and passwords,
            or comment out the CREATE USER commands if you have existing
            accounts.  In either case, update the GRANT commands to
            refer to the appropriate account names.
        Run MySQL as root to execute the commands, e.g.,
            mysql> SOURCE createDevelMysqlAccts.sql

setupSmartDB.sql
    This file calls most of the other files in the directory.  They
    clear out the contents of the njala_proto database (if a previous
    version existed), and create

    ==> Instructions:
        Run MySQL as root or as a SMART DBA and run the setupSmartDB.sql
        script:
            mysql> SOURCE setupSmartDB.sql

In order for SMART to use the MySQL account you have set up for it and
access the database, you will need to specify the account username,
password, and database in an application.ini file in the configs
directory.

==> See the README file in the configs directory for more information.


---------------------

CREATING PRODUCTION, TEST, and STAGED ENVIRONMENTS:

createDraftProductionMysqlAccts.sql
    This file has examples of commands to create DBA accounts and
    accounts used by the SMART software itself, and to grant them
    appropriate permissions on the database associated with each
    environment.  You may set up different DBA and Smart accounts
    for each environment, use existing DBA accounts for all three
    environments, or even use the same Smart account for all three
    environments.  Setting up a different Smart account for each
    environment provides greater separation between the production
    and test/staged environments.

    If you edit this file and use it as a script, you should change its
    permissions first to be readable only to you.
    You must run MySQL as root (or some other user that has CREATE USER
    and GRANT permissions to execute the commands found in this file.

Creating the databases for each environment:
    You can use the files in this directory as a template for creating
    production and test/staged databases, one-by-one.  First edit the
    files in the directory to remove the USE `njala_proto`; statements.
    This need only be done once.  (They are there because in a development
    environment one occasionally wants to re-initialize select tables
    after testing.)  Then edit the setupSmartDB.sql script to refer to
    each database in turn (`njala_production`, `njala_test_env`, and
    `njala_stage_env`, or whatever you called them) and run the script.

In order for SMART to use the MySQL accounts you have set up for it and
access the databases, you will need to specify the account usernames,
passwords, and databases in appropriate sections of an application.ini
file in the configs directory.

==> See the README file in the configs directory for more information.

